hello everybody it is Monday October
28th and this is that I get most weekly
call and since life Jimmy is not working
for us we're gonna be doing this the
recorded old-school way which should be
fine this is a weekly call for focus and
ipfs community the two things on our
agenda so far are just a little weekly
update on kind of what what's been
happening across the IBS project this
past week and then I'm talking about
2020 project planning if you have other
things to add please either stick them
in the chat as suggestions or hands or
something along those lines or add them
to our handy dandy minutes document
which I just linked in the chat cool I
am going to share my screen since that
seems easier so the people can see what
I'm seeing I hope this is the right
window yeah it seems right cool so quick
weekly update just kind of looking at
across all of the various working groups
and what they have been up to for the
past week if anyone wants to jump in and
add clarification or add additional
color to my very lightning fast update
please feel free
um on the infra flash gateway side of
things the keyway is deploying a number
of new bootstrap notes which have submit
so handy characteristics are very our
previous bootstrap notes were very old
so this has been kind of like a long
time work in progress that we've
accelerated recently and hopefully we'll
see those fully land this week there's
also a couple of performance
improvements coming down the line
specifically some work that Dirk has
done to fix some performance issues that
were work we were noticing between our
gateways and IPS cluster which hopefully
will make all users of cluster faster
which will be phenomenal and so
hopefully that one rolls out shortly on
test ground which is our our chunk of
work to make sure that as we are
releasing new complicated changes to the
IP bus protocol to people who use IPS in
the wild for like very large production
use cases that we're not breaking them
and they were actually improving
performance
reliably this is our network simulation
tools that we has been in the works for
for the past quarter and to me Oh
hellooo hi Jessica
okay um it's our network simulation tool
and the first two end-to-end test plans
are landing shortly and I'm sure Jim and
avi can tell you even more about that
but really really awesome work happening
there and really exciting the group is
pushing hard to make sure that that is
up and running so that we can make our
next go IPA best release this quarter
which is our p0 aim for this quarter um
next kind of from the project operations
side we launched our 2020 planning
effort which has a call for suggestions
for themes more on that in just a second
and on the IP fest dockside Jessica can
tell you a lot more about the beta that
they are hard at work on putting
together so that that's taking our core
documentation content it has new
information architecture with some some
new placeholders for ducks that we want
to exist and it'll work on transferring
over old docks to new formats so we can
move things around and get feedback and
test it with folks and there's there's a
lot of useful ways for for you to
participate in that so if you want to
participate in UX things definitely talk
to Jessica she would love to get your
your ideas and knowledge and from the
package managers side of things I heard
I heard in previous meeting and that
there's some snazzy work on add
performance which last time we measured
it was way slower than we wanted it to
be that now we're measuring it again and
things are looking way better so some
more investigation there to see how how
things have been proved over the last
chunk of time but also very this okay
there we go very good improvements there
for people to pay attention to hopefully
we'll see more shortly anyone
anything to to clarify or add on to my
lightning-fast tour of what's new this
week Jessica go for it I'll add a link
in the agenda for this meeting to the
dock speedo repo as well as a link to a
Google Form work if you want to get more
involved in some more rigorous testing
that's how to get us your info it's very
much a work in progress we're migrating
content this week so I won't actually I
won't share the playground site because
it's like not useful to anybody at this
point but oh we shall have some more
information real real soon thanks
awesome feet are there any updates from
research land that you wanted to
contribute I know that there are a
number of open problems that you'd love
feedback on maybe so we have a total of
seven open problems that are being
checked out two of them were actually
merged last week one on rotting on
Pierce's research and the other on
privacy-preserving networks or IP FSS
research as I explained last week and
not going to prolong on it it's a place
to put get an idea like what is the open
problem to learn what has been done so
far in the physical system what we know
about in the Bravo echo system and also
what we want to achieve once the problem
is solved and so like if you are
interested in any of the topics of the
open problems it's a very good place for
you to like share your wisdom share your
experience share your ideas or share
your questions like if the open problems
are clear enough for you then no letters
now because we want to make sure that
like we use that as an entry point to
unboard more people to think with us and
like to solve those or proposals
together I can paste here link so that
you know where to find us Thank You
Maura for the prompt
awesome awesome Dirk your background is
gorgeous you are definitely winning in
terms of the the fall display all MBs
cool any other updates
ipfs week in the life
I don't see any hands I can't see
everyone all at once I'm just like
flipping back and forth it's Joe cool
and then I'll go for it whoever just I'm
you did oh do you hear a ding or
something it's me Terry uh next week
hopefully we will be launching our next
tutorial for Provo school which will be
about the regular files API this is the
best name we have for it at the moment
we non em FS stuff like adding then
getting a cat and all that jazz um so I
will probably midweek this week the
asking for some proofing help from
people who do feel quite familiar with
ipfs just a triple check that we have
not introduced any lies when we as
beginners built the tutorial and so if
you're interested in doing that just
ping me and I don't I let you know and
it's the right time to do it we're still
making a few tweaks hopefully that will
be coming next week
lovely request very good good point
all right any other any other things sit
back that's four okay I don't see any
hands and then I'll give you guys a
quick update and insight into our 2020
planning work and timeline so that
everyone kind of knows how to make
suggestions and is encouraged to do so
please send your ideas and thoughts so
this this is our kind of call for
proposals and similarly if you
participated in other open-source
communities like rest and there's a kind
of call for proposals on what should the
project be focusing on which asks for
suggestions and kind of strategic
insights from people and is an
opportunity to focus on like hey like
you know there's all this important
stuff but this thing has fallen off the
radar we should make sure to bring this
thing back back into focus and and so
that is the call that's happening here
and it talks a little bit about project
state but then the meat of this is
making themed proposals lots of examples
super flexible there's a template for
creating issues which are then can spark
a discussion and other people can add to
and clarify and make suggestions on top
of but all of this knowledge can't we'll
go into a planning spike where we focus
spike is probably a great well but where
we focus really closely on doing 2020
planning or timeboxing and condensing it
down into just a week this year so that
we're gonna harness all of this
knowledge and all of the work that we're
doing kind of asynchronously to make
suggestions into a very short like
focused week of actually coming up with
a project level plan for the year and
then from that we'll we'll split out
more into into working groups to figure
out how that applies in q1 and so
there's a couple of known 2020
milestones for people to think about
when we have in our brains what should i
POS be doing next year in particular
versus you know two years from now or
something like that and and then there's
a high-level timeline here and call for
proposals is open until November 8th and
that's when we're gonna harness those
proposals and ideas and the proposal
template is here in the roadmap repo and
just asks for a title description I'm
talking about needs and gaps that this
is meeting why we should focus on it
this year
high-level what it looks like the focus
on it this year what would it actually
mean that we do like what would we do
and why and and how would we evaluate
our success for that like what would the
world look like differently after
focusing on that for the year and so
again this can be many different things
and we can end up accepting multiple of
these we can end up accepting half of
one we can merge some together this is
flexible but lots of suggestions very
welcome and there is I think one one
example to kind of illustrate our point
with a focus for building solid
foundations for growth and which already
has some thoughts and comments on it
more comments welcome but also people
are very encouraged to iterate and and
make new suggestions and come up with
new new ideations but you kind of get
the the general format from this any
thoughts or questions about o.j go for
it
who is file coin test net still on
target for December 11th launch and yeah
the question it's a great question
we're not the valve going team so I
believe so but I do not have any special
insight
and it looked like March is the target
for the main net launch on file coin
that correct yeah so they're they've
released a blog post a couple weeks ago
with what the South Point team is is
focused on and and their high-level
timeline some exciting things coming
along the road there's also some other
cool projects like youth to I believe is
planning to launch in q1 of 2019 which
is exciting and they're utilizing
whippy-tippy I believe there are a
number of other projects in the ipfs
ecosystem that are either going from
beta to full launch or going from kind
of work-in-progress to beta in the early
q1 timeframe so there's going to be
definite growth there and then the
browser's work that we've been pushing
on some of that also will hopefully be
coming to fruition in the lake you for
early human time frame which will will
also be an exciting milestone keep an
eye on
j-johnny go ahead it was just the
timeline for things for standard
submissions so I have some open issues
still with like registering mime types
with application / IP LD and see bore
and Plus JSON and or also there's the
the IP LD I in a scheme name
registration that's still sort of an
outstanding issue so is a thought to
actually the migrate those open issues
into more of the 2020 planning document
that's a good question and I think for
things that are are a thing on our
backlog it's a specific task that we
need to do that we should probably be
tracking that in in somewhere that is
like a to-do list
versus a what is a higher-order focus
for the entire team so like um you know
getting getting an IPL d mimetype
standardized like it seems like a thing
that might be part of a theme but but
not a theme in and of itself
we also Wow well a theme for the ipfs
project for next year would definitely
encompass and incorporate needs for IPL
B and for let p2p and other projects
that we depend upon in terms of you know
hey you know we will help contribute to
making DHT performance a thing or we
will you know be consumers of XYZ sort
of IP LD feature and performance
improvement in order to enable this
theme but this is also not directly let
PvP or I kill the yearly planning they
may choose to have their own forums or
their own structure for how they picks
up suggestions for for their projects
and so well we can make make requests
and recommendations in this form this is
not planning for the IP LD project
itself it's that kind of answer your
question yeah I suppose that we must
have kind of a challenge which is that
each project has its own time horizon
and I think and I know like
Eric has been working on the new flavor
for IPL D but it's really you know
things like you know even ipfs scheme
registration would be immensely helpful
for getting momentum for getting things
into the wild so especially for
interoperability with other
specifications so like a multi adder is
just that not robust enough to just
throw into a string or interoperability
people need to know that actually this
is a multi adder in the protocol or
leveraging the p2p for instance it's a
sort of another so these these are hard
because each of those are different
projects but how do we actually get
cohesion actually to get momentum to
actually to to get interoperability with
play nicely that's I mean I think if
there's a a large body of work around
getting to that point
getting to standardization movements
that that would be like a year's chunk
or a slice of a year's chunk of work
around specification and no building up
towards that probably doing in a similar
factors or some some changes ahead of
trying to standardize things kind of a
one dot o sort of work product then that
totally would deserve a theme submission
in and of itself
you shirk I saw you had a hand yeah I I
would like to I think this I think Molly
you're right this probably is a little
orthogonal to the ipfs specific 20/20
planning but I really would like to talk
more if people are interested at Browns
Cola singing interest in activity around
standards body interactions this is one
of the things that I have on my 2020
list for investment where browsers work
and you know what what mr. crunch said
around that kind of setting us up for
broader adoption in some of these larger
vehicles like major browsers this is
really true and it's gonna will play a
part so maybe there's a side band here
around I would love to be able to have a
periodic meeting just to talk about
standards relators work in that set of
technologies that ipfs sits on and in
and around but I think you're headed
separate from the 2020 themes but
definitely message me if you're
interested in talking about this and
maybe we could set up a regular thing to
talk about just how this pool of
technologies interacts with standards
bodies what our goals and the very
there's various activities I keep
discovering more and more of them that
are related to that to standardization
absolutely anyone else have had the
hands or questions or thoughts about
2020 planning
to to aims from this r1 everyone has an
opportunity to have their voice heard on
what we should be focusing on and so
this is this is your opportunity make it
count
definitely use this opportunity to talk
about what you think we should be
focusing on and and also a name of
communicating really clearly what we end
up choosing so the rhetoric of like why
we focus on what and this is kind of the
beginning of of making sure that that
lands really carefully with everyone who
is contributing to ipfs so that folks
understand why we are choosing the focus
areas that we do next year and that
there's kind of clear clear
understanding across the community on
what we're prioritizing
well I do not see any additional hands
we have three minutes left
are there any other things that people
want to discuss or talk about or share
about what's happening in IPs
nope everyone's good phenomenal cool
we'll have a wonderful end of October go
eat a lot of candy dress up in funny
costumes share your funny costumes with
with your friends in ipfs there was
there was discussion about being about
being a merkel bag for for Halloween if
you have an IP FS or other protocol
related Halloween costume please take
pictures and put on Twitter or IRC or
something so that everyone can and enjoy
because I'm really looking forward to
seeing other people's creativity so that
I can live vicariously for you I'm going
to stop sharing and everyone have a
wonderful rest of your day
Cheers bye right I